and the thing that adults forget is that
teenagers know that they're young and
supposed to be learning right and making
mistakes too and making mistakes so
they'll rebel against you if you tell
them what to do [__] you I'm not going
to do that I'm going to do my own thing
you know a little bit about rebelling as
a
teenager just a
little wait you're not supposed to know
that the green Mohawk photos are
supposed to be a
secret hey Esme hi Dad so what do we you
doing here what's like what what have
you got me into um okay so I have a
project for school and they want me to
create a podcast and I wrapped my brain
of things that I could make a podcast
about and I remember that last time we
made a podcast it was super fun and so I
thought we'd do it again okay so what
wait
wait what what kind of podcast are we
doing it about this like what what
what yeah
I was thinking that we could talk about
what it's like to raise a teenager cuz
last time we talked about what it was
like to raise me from a young age and
what that Journey was like and so I
figured why not why not take uh chapter
two and make a podcast about that okay
but if we're doing that I want your
opinion about like what parents grew up
on being a teenager like how I am more
than happy more than happy to to provide
that
information I bet you are yeah I I do
think that there's a lot of stuff that
um I don't know not that people do wrong
but just that um parents are searching
for connection with their teenagers and
they do this or they do that and it kind
of works in the complete reverse of what
they want and so I think there's a lot
to explore yeah awesome all right cool
so where do you want to start how do you
want to start this I was thinking that
we would start with
me asking you the question what was it
or how has it been to raise me as a
teenager I'm 18 leaving the home soon
which is breaking both of our hearts I
think yeah it is and yeah and um yeah
what have I would say last five years
been
like uh
um I mean in general it's a I mean I
thrive in the teenage years I I like
your mom was so much better at the
younger ages and
i' I finally have like got into my own
when it comes to teenagers
I I love it I love being the parent of a
teenager I I constantly people are like
how is it I'm like it's great they're
like look at me crazy I I think it's
wonderful I love I love it there's been
some challenges too there's like I'd say
the two biggest challenges I have
are trying to figure out like when to
you know when to draw a boundary when to
let you make a mistake
um when to say okay that that's not
going to work and that one's really hard
for me because I want you to have as
much Independence as possible of course
and then so so that one's a challenge
for me and um and I think the other big
challenge for me in
raising it's funny as soon as I said I
was like the other big challenge is like
that like I it's over way too soon like
I like
like I was talking to um ran into an old
friend in Santa Rosa today and she was
like the the like the hurt that you feel
now before they leave is worse than the
hurt that you feel when they leave and I
was in my head I'm like [__]
[__] [__] like there's I can't
imagine it yeah I miss you when I'm gone
for a week so that also is going to be
really challenging for me is like I feel
like I'm just getting to know you as an
adult and that's and that's hard but the
I think that Journey's over
though yeah I tell myself that
too like I know that we're gonna get to
keep on hanging out and that we like
hanging out together um but it's just
like having you here every day is is is
sweet yeah I'm gonna miss it yeah just
starting we've been talking to una like
or una and I have been chatting and yeah
that hurts to think about yeah and I
think that she's right though I think
your old friend might be right that the
anticipation of someone leaving is more
painful than the actual going and I'm
not going I'm physically moving
but I don't yeah you know yeah I always
tell my friends my friends or when I
meet people they're like oh tell me
about your friends I'm like well so my
dad he's one of my best
friends uh yeah uh I really love our
relationship and where it's where it's
come to and I don't know all the steps
along the journey yeah me too my so yeah
I think yeah I think that's the to get
to the challenge of it the challenge is
like you want to do something and I am
clear that it's probably not great for
you I generally want you to be able to
do your thing and occasionally I know
it's really important for me to draw the
boundary usually you thank me if I draw
the boundary maybe not right away uhhuh
um but my my rule has always been or my
thought process has always been is like
if you're taking care of yourself if
you're participating in the family and
you're being good to people you get as
much Freedom as you want yeah you've
been really consistent about that and I
think that it it
works yeah like well it works for
someone like you it yeah it works for me
I I don't think it would work for for
everyone but just cuz of the
relationship we have and kind of like
the respect that I know goes both ways
and how yeah it feels like a reciprocal
relationship where I put in my part and
then um like I get my part you know like
it feels really
balanced I um and I and I'll say like I
really appreciate something about you is
like if you do get all uppity with me
you know what I mean on something you
apologize quickly yeah I I think vice
versa but if I'm like okay no it's like
it's too much to go out for another
night and you're like ah you want to do
it you get all Moody for a minute it's
usually less than like five hours or or
overnight where you're like yeah that
was a good thing for me thanks well I
think that happens every single time
whether I admit it to you or not you
know but I I mean you and Mom both you
guys don't put your foot down hard off
often like it's more like you'll I'll um
I'll think of a plan I'll propose it to
you guys and you'll be like oh like so
you know you'll like dig into it a
little bit let me find my own conclusion
of like oh maybe that's not such a good
idea or like I am really tired and I'll
benefit from getting a good night of
sleep or something like that but
occasionally you do put your foot down
and I of course I get upset but it's
like yeah I've learned I think like
maybe over the last two or three years
that when you guys are putting your foot
down
I I should just listen to it like I have
to be like okay I understand that I'm
frustrated and they're definitely seeing
something that I'm not right here and so
like Let It Be You know it's interesting
like how much like I have to let my
heartbreak every time you get really
upset in those moments
like you know like I know that that's
the job of the parent but I can just
feel so many parents too when their par
when their kids get really upset at them
like
it's a heartbreaking thing right you
like anybody anytime that someone you
loves gets really upset at you there's
some heartbreak and with teenagers you
know it's going to happen sometimes
right sometimes you're like I know the
thing I'm GNA say is going to piss them
off and they're they're gonna they're
gonna let me know that they're pissed
off and that's a little bit of a like
like to be undefended in that is a bit
of a trick I'm sure yeah I mean yeah I
think maybe that can lead to a lot of
problems in a like a parent um child
relationship is like I don't know just
thinking about that of a parent gets
scared of I don't know maybe getting
yelled at or having their kid be angry
with them or they're just looking for
connection with their kid and they like
oh if I say that or if I tell them no
then they're going to push me even
farther away and stuff like that and I
think it just completely the opposite
cuz when you do put your foot down like
it tells me that you really care and
that you you do love me and that you're
like oh you're really looking out for me
and seeing like having my best in
interest in in
mind yeah I think it's the the way you
do it too right if you're hard about it
if the way that I if the way that I
would protect myself from that
heartbreak of having you upset with me
was to get really hard at you I think
then maybe the respect can't be felt as
easily I don't think it would be yeah
yeah and when it comes out as anger I
think it's so much harder to receive
yeah yeah how about the how about the
other way how about like the parents who
are constantly micromanaging their kids
what how do you think that like how does
that
I I have a a story of a friend right and
her yeah her parents do that and she has
a younger sister and God they'll be
washing the dishes and the dad will come
over and you know you're not doing the
dishes right like this is how you
actually wash the pants or like no no no
like not like that it's actually like
this and I do that voice cuz it's just
so absurd to me you're telling your
15-year-old or your 18-year-old how to
wash a
pan yeah that's absurd and I completely
understand like where they're coming
from of like wanting their kid to learn
how to do things like properly
or wanting to feel I don't I don't
actually you would probably know where
that like need comes from more than I
would but but I think in the long term
it just dis
empowers um the teenager or the kid or
how however I think it just in any
situation whether it be a boss or or a
parent of like being micromanaged all
the time it doesn't help you get better
at things or feel confident doing things
by yourself it didn't it just is the
complete
opposite yeah I noticed that totally and
yeah I mean when I notice I want to
micromanage something it's because I'm
feeling a little little bit out of
control typically out of control yeah
you like find control in one part of
your life because you feel out of
control in another part exactly yeah I
think that's what what do you think how
does how does it so you obviously have
friends some are like vaping a lot some
are smoking a lot of pot I would assume
some are drinking a lot yeah we were
just talking about like we started to
see that happen in the seventh and
eighth grade for you know some folks
and what do you think causes that like
what what not what causes that in
general but like what's the parents
responsibility in that or what's the
like what do you see as the kind of the
through line in the way the parents are
with those kids with those kids like the
through line that kind of causes and
continues the behavior potentially yeah
exactly yeah that's a really good
question
I I think it depends on each situation I
think when there's like a tough home
life situation where maybe parents are
um fighting or one parent is finally
taking care of themselves and has kind
of I don't know separated herself from
the F his or herself from the family
that could be super hard and I think
that is also the micromanaging and the
criticizing
especially um I always say like or I
think I actually probably got this
saying from you but the there's the
shame um like there's the body language
that says shame and then there's the
body language that says I get criticized
you know and one the criticism comes
from the shoulders and the um shame
comes kind of from the butt where like
the hips are kind of in I don't know
exactly yeah tucked butt tucked butt
yeah exactly a shame butt shame butt
shame butt yeah shame butt and I noticed
that a lot of the kids who Vape a lot
have the crit
criticism um you know like the the
posture of someone who gets criticized a
lot
and the uh the weed kids it's really
interesting it's a little different um
there's more shame than there is
criticism with um that I've observed
with um with weed for some reason and I
don't exactly know why that is but I
think my guess would be that shame kind
of leads to an internal crit uh critical
voice and yeah smoking weed probably
puts that voice on pause temporarily um
yeah yeah um for me for me when I when I
was in my my 20s and was like smoking
pot a lot yeah for me part of it was a
big repressed anger all my anger was
going towards myself like that shame and
there was like all this repressed anger
and when I started moving it when I
started moving it a lot of like my
desire for pot seemed to go away how how
when you look at the kids who are
smoking a lot of pot at your age how
much of it do you see as repressed
anger like they're not allowed to be
angry about
that probably a fair amount I don't see
the repressed anger necessarily but the
kids they're
not there's not a fire to them if that
makes any sense or like like for example
I know this one kid we were friends
freshman year he was super spunky like
quick with The Comebacks had a lot of
like sass but in a really like sweet and
Lively way and he started smoking a lot
of weed sophomore junior year um kind of
still in the loop right now and he's so
different the like the fire is just so
much more dull and there's this like
kind of like okay like I'm just going to
go with it and I I would guess that that
is not feeling anger like when you
release that anger like yeah I I don't
know yeah there's a there's a a there's
like a Tibetan thing I think it is where
they talk about how anger when it's
fully expressed and fully loved it
repres it shows up as um determination
and Clarity like and when it's kinked it
might be repressed or it might be
yelling at somebody or it might be
something like that but it sounds like
you're noticing like a lack of
determination in in these kids a lack of
motivation a lack of determination I
even feel that when I haven't felt my
anger or like I think exercise is a way
that I often kind of release that stress
and if I'm feeling frustration or anger
like I'll exercise or you'll send me to
the bedroom with a baseball bat and give
me a timer um
but but I think when I or I don't know
it just kind of happened sing a lot of
anger around um I don't know all sorts
of all sorts of things last week
and I felt myself kind of lose
motivation like I had a Chem test today
and most of like week last week I was
just kind of avoiding studying and just
avoiding like I don't
know there's just like such an avoidance
of like I'm just going to like rot in my
bed on my phone and like I don't want to
do anything and like I feel shitty and I
feel stuck and and then as soon as I
exercised I was like oh like we're back
we're like I don't know
yeah yeah another question for you or
like discussion I want to have is like
yeah how how many how
many H how many kids actually feel like
their parents like them like and I don't
mean yeah like no that the kids feel
like they're liked yeah because like is
a different thing yeah because when I
look at like even if a parent does like
their kid what I notice is it's like you
shouldn't be angry you shouldn't be this
you shouldn't be that you should like
you're too feisty why aren't you getting
this sport it's like they're they're not
getting communicated like hey I like you
they're getting communicated like a lot
of like this is the way you should be
which means you're not naturally that
way which means like you need to be
controlled you need to be managed we
like we don't trust you that you're GNA
like show up and I'm just wondering like
of your friends like what percentage I
mean we live in a very good Community
Etc like a lot of we're fortunate and so
a lot of kids are raised pretty well
here but like how many of the kids that
you like look at in your school do you
look at them you're like oh they feel
like their parents like
them not
many that's sad yeah I'd never thought
of that
before yeah I don't
think I think most of them feel loved by
their parents yeah but I don't think
that many of them think that I don't
think many of them feel like they
actually have a relationship with their
parents either like outside of just like
this is my father this is my
mother the parental role I don't know
you know like like going back to what we
were saying earlier of the mutual
respect yeah I don't think
that that's there in many Teenage parent
relationships yeah I think that's one of
the things that always thought about
with you
is like some version
of I I I remember there was something
that happened early on
where you were biting me this is really
young and I good to say you're it's not
not recent and Tara your mom was like um
you're biting
her and I was like nibbling on you I'd
be like and it was like playful but she
was like you're telling her it's okay to
do that like oh interesting and it's
like right if you yell at your kid
you're telling them it's okay to yell
back at you if you're if you're if you
don't like your kid you're telling them
it's okay not to like you like there's
like something in that always and I was
always like oh I want to treat you like
the way I would treat somebody like an
adult that I respect now you want to
draw boundaries so that's not quite the
same way right but besides that and in
every other way I want to treat you like
an adult that I respect it's like it's
always been a part
of I have a job to teach you certain
stuff but like yeah
yeah and that's that's the other thing
that I find which is really cool in our
relationship that I see lacking in a lot
of the parents
is um it's it's like if I'm having a
problem with the way that you're
behaving I bring the whole problem to
you right so I'm like okay so it's my
job to make sure that you're not
addicted to your phone like as a parent
I'm not a good parent and I don't want
to nag you yeah and I don't want like
you to feel micromanaged by me right so
what do we do together to help you have
a Rel the right relationship with your
phone that's going to make you the
happiest and how do I support you in
that yeah and you know what I mean like
that that little conversation I feel
like doesn't happen with a lot of
teenagers I feel like it's not even just
that little conversation I feel like
whenever there's something like that we
sit down and have a conversation about
it it's it's never like a you should or
like why aren't you you know like finger
pointing it's more like this is what I'm
noticing like how are you feeling
arounded does it feel good to you
like cuz with the phone like I too don't
want to be on it all the time like it
doesn't feel good for me and I notice
how much happier and more creative I am
when I I'm like doing filling my time
with other things and like when you sit
down you're like hey I'm noticing that
there's this pattern
happening yeah more often than not it
becomes a a discussion of like oh my
gosh I hadn't noticed that like what can
we do together to change that pattern
and it's always a joint ever it's never
like a oh like I have to do this or I
have to change that it's like how can
I'll support you in changing that yeah
which is super cool I have another
question for you yeah yeah what um what
are things that you have noticed
work it's kind of along the same lines
of what
you just asked me of like what are the
tactics we can call them of like um
parenting a teenager that seem to have a
pretty good success
rate yeah
so emotionally I find you never want to
chase a teenager yeah but you always
want to be available so
like when you come in the room I if un
if you're doing homework or something
but generally when you come into the
room I try to make myself available to
you sometimes I'm really good at it
sometimes I'm not quite as good at it so
I've make myself available but I really
try not to chase I notice that
like parents who are constantly like in
their kids crap you know like what's
going on in school today and then
there's like this little like have you
thought about it this way like it's like
their job to make sure their kids are
happy like at yeah or doing the right
thing or something like that that like I
I find that that is that is not a
like that's not a way to create a great
relationship it's better to have the the
kid come to you as much as possible and
when you say something be direct about
it instead of oh I'm not you know like I
see a lot of like I want to say this
thing but I don't feel like I can say
this thing so I'm gonna kind of skirt
around it a little bit have you really
thought about you know like instead of
that doesn't feel good you know instead
of like that straight direct thing yeah
so that's one of the things um the other
one is that that topic that I said which
is just showing up and saying like this
is I don't want to nag or this
relationship doesn't feel good right now
like our relationship doesn't feel like
the way I want it how to we fix it or
yeah I see this thing and I have a job I
have my conflict between being a good
parent and not wanting to nag you I mean
nobody really wants to nag their
teenagers so bringing the problems to
the teenagers I think is really an
important thing yeah a really great
tactic is the thing that I do with you
is like take a two day two three day
road trip with your kids every yeah
every every six months where you
actually get to connect and don't bring
phones or minimize your phone Ed to like
between five and six at night and really
have time to be with each other and
enjoy each other those have been awesome
that yeah that's been I think really
that really helps with the reconnection
so that's another tactic that I think is
really good um also just one that came
to mind of that goes along to what you
were just saying is whenever I noticed
that whenever you um you or I are away
from home for a while or just get super
busy and caught up in life you call me
or you see like dinner T dinner time or
whatever and you're just like hey I
haven't seen you and talked to you in a
while like can we get lunch or can we
get dinner can we spend time together
instead of like this chasing like you
were saying
like I don't know it's like yeah the
puppy running away and you're like come
back come back come back and the puppy's
like oh my God they're chasing me you
know yeah and just like naming it like
hey like I would love to spend some time
with you where we're not distracted by
phones or talking about the future of I
don't know like scheduling or something
like that like can we just sit down have
a nice conversation administration of
Life yeah yeah I think that's a good
tactic too which is like have time to
connect with your kids that are not like
telling them what to do scheduling [__]
deciding what the next thing is doing
sports like actually just have time
where you're just hanging out and
listening and asking questions like
totally I noticed
that if I ask you questions from not a
from a I just read this recently NATO
place which is like no attachment to the
outcome like if I ask you question to
the outome I like that yeah and so if I
ask you like which is view basically
like one of the aspects of you like if I
if I ask you questions from view you if
we have this space you like you love it
we talk and then at the end of it you
feel deeply connected and you're really
grateful for it totally yeah it's yeah
it's never much of a struggle
either no yeah yeah I think the other
the other tactic that I'm thinking about
right now is like like if I think about
you and Una
it like I I I I try to meet you both
where you're at rather than yeah where
I'm at you know like I I we so as a
younger teenager you're an older
teenager I think there's this habit of
people um comparing the younger one to
the older one kind of thinking that the
younger one should be where the older
one is which is totally instead of going
oh yeah like she she she's younger and
so meeting you where and in the interest
that you have and you know what you want
to talk about and what Uno wants to talk
about are completely different totally
different things yeah different totally
different things and to be in your world
to go down the rabbit hole in your world
is really an important thing to me and
and and and a good tactic like like go
down the rabbit hole like be in your
kids worlds for a while right and like
see how they see the world I had this I
had a session recently with a woman and
she said having a problem with the
teenager and I was like not a problem
but something wasn't going right with
the
sun and I was like oh I'd love to talk
to him and so she goes out of the room
he got suspended or some such and um go
goes out of the room and I hear her you
know say so you know you want to talk to
this guy he's like well I don't know I
have to talk to him you could see she he
was upset and I sat down and I and when
he sat down to talk to me I was like you
know first of all only like only when be
here only as long as you want to be here
yeah but in my talking to him I was just
really interested in how he saw the
world right and and you could tell that
wasn't his day-to-day his day-to-day
wasn't somebody interested in his world
what he thinks and how he thinks and and
I get like for posting I'm like normally
when I see this I see that you know
normally right there's probably like
some kind of thing with the men group
where like somebody's trying to Top Dog
the other one he's like no we're like
more like Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn like
we just like to like get into big
trouble together you know I mean and
like and he had so much joy and I was
like oh like what's fun about that he's
like oh we did the what but but it was
just what was interesting is what was
clear is that there wasn't a lot of
people who were interested in the way he
saw the world right and I think that's
another was like being deeply interested
in your kids ways of seeing the
world it makes I think just in any
relationship in general feeling actually
interested in and heard and listened to
you feel so much more deeply connected
at the end of a
conversation yeah everybody wants that
and you're you're also sending the
teenager the message which
is the way you look at the world is
valid yeah who you are is
valid and and the thing that like I
think a adults forget is that teenagers
know that they're young and supposed to
be learning right yeah and making
mistakes too and making mistakes so they
they they'll rebel against you if you
tell them what to do [__] you I'm not
going to do that I'm going to do my own
thing you know a little bit about
rebelling as a
teenager just a
little wait you're not supposed to know
that the green Mohawk photos are
supposed to be a secret you gave me
something to rebel against as a child
cuz you knew it was a natural part of a
thing you're like I'm going to tell you
I hate high-waisted jeans just so that
you can wear them and be in Rebellion
against me for that and so it doesn't
come out in some weird other sideways
way and I wore high-waisted jeans for
for years it was not cute like the super
super highwaisted ones you
know yeah I remember doing that oh
yeah oh my God I made such a fuss about
how I you're like my mom used to wear
them oh they're so old they're so ugly
and I'd sh by you in the morning I'm
weird when you told me that was all just
for the plot and you were doing that
just for fun and kind of I don't know as
like something on oh my God I don't know
what what what happened for you when I
when I told you that I remember that was
like what a year and a half ago two
years ago yeah but I was like well you
hate Highway you no not really I mean
like they don't look good on everyone
but I don't really hate them I was
like what I was like I don't know I
think my first thought was just pure
shock and then the second thought was
like what else is he making
up it was a little
duplic pretty funny yeah I mean my
rebellion was so hardcore as a teen I
think that was part of it is that like
well my teenage years just [__]
sucked you know and and I remember
there's a guy named Lil Tuttle
unfortunately pass he was a chain smoker
but like he was the first guy to see me
as a teenager and he was like he wanted
to hear me he wanted to to know who like
I get Ty just thinking about like he
wanted to know who I was and he and he
and he saw the best in me so the Best in
Me showed up for him he was the guy
running this boarding school that I got
shipped off to and and um and I think
that I just remember how important that
was and and how simple it was like for
yeah LOL it was just like it was just
pleasurable for him like and he just
somehow trusted that I'd be a good kid
and I and so I did I mean I I went from
getting bad grades to Straight A's I
like I I just showed up the way that he
saw me right instead of the way that my
mom worried about me or my dad you know
fought with
me wow yeah do you think that I think I
think that's where it comes from I think
that's where I learned it was from LOL
makes that makes a lot of sense yeah do
you think that how like how do I phrase
this exactly do you think that the
way you were raised as a teenager kind
of
um I don't added to the inspiration and
the wanting of having a really good
relationship with your teenagers when
you were a parent
no I mean you just knew what not to do
like that that didn't work that didn't
work that didn't work I think what well
I mean the way I was raised as a
teenager was traumatic as [__] and I had
to do a [__] ton of healing like 20
something years of healing to like get
to a place where I could be in a good
relationship with myself and I think
being in a good relationship with myself
is what taught me how to be in a good
relationship with
you right like I think that like the
when I look at somebody who's raising
their kids
and their kids are like in full
occasionally there's other reasons like
there's chemical imbalances or something
but but if their kids are in like that
in a big thing it's like it's more of a
reflection of the parents the way that
in my world the more of a reflection of
the way that the parents are in
relationship with themselves and each
other yeah one of the things that I have
seen through your school all your
schooling years is like if the parents
are fighting like your mom and I had
that bad spell for six months when we
were
going through yeah yeah
um uh but like whenever the parents are
fighting you can see it in the kids like
you could probably at this age like or
let me ask you how how how clear is it
for you to be able to walk around your
school and know whose parents have been
like where there's like home
strife and has been for like more than a
couple months yeah it's I would say it's
incredibly clear
yeah and sometimes I don't notice it
right away and then I'll meet the
parents and I'm like
Ah that's why I don't know it's
sometimes it's just funny and like duh
but other times it's so sad like yeah
I've been like so upset with this person
for how they're behaving or so
frustrated by it um I don't know there
was a girl on the basketball team and
always seeking attention and in ways
that were just so just distracting and
frustrating to be around and um
one day she asked for a ride home I gave
her a ride home and she started talking
about what it was like living in her
home and
how
um she she basically she I don't know
she said it really clearly she's like I
I never feel like they pay me any
attention I was like oh she's not
feeling loved or cared for or feeling
like her parents like have any time to
give her attendance so she's looking for
it in every other place and just
continuing that pattern it made me
really really sad and and like
extraordinarily grateful at the same
time of like oh I get to go to school
and not need to seek the attention or
the approval of the people around me cuz
I feel secure and I I like I get what I
need at home you know like yeah how did
your relationship with her change once
you saw that like she was annoying as
[__] and then you saw that and then how
did it
change it just kind of turned into
compassion
I I parts of her still bothered the [__]
out of me um yeah yeah um but under the
frustration that I had towards her was
like more of a deeper understanding of
where that came from and also yeah she's
considerably younger than me 3 years
maybe and I was like oh like I can't
obviously be her parent by any means but
I can show her that she's loved and that
she's cared for because the pattern that
she's working out in with our team and
everything makes her the outcast and
ostracized and people don't like her and
everything and so and I don't know we
just had our last game and she was
sobbing and gave me like the biggest hug
and she's like thank you for for making
me feel like a part of this team and I
didn't even feel like a part of the team
necessarily but just
it just is such a like I don't know it
was really sweet yeah yeah yeah could
you could you tell me a little bit or
could you tell the
people um a little bit more about what
your childhood or not your childhood but
your teenage Hood was
like yeah I mean I it was full Rebellion
against my parents it was you know you
know
back then it was like everybody dressed
pretty much the same and if you dress
different there wasn't like oh you have
like people are more Gothic more like
Punk more new and all that was cool it
was like that you were either normal or
you were not normal and
so I was like not normal and I just like
this is 14 or so I would run away from
home I would not come back for a couple
days I had a mohawk my parents kicked me
out of the house a green mohawk my
parents kicked me out of the
house um I tried to get a job the police
showed up took me to
counseling with my parents the counselor
pretty much told my parents like this
isn't his issue he's 14 this is your
issue my parents response to that was
put me in a boarding
school um and the first boarding school
didn't click very well I was I was
Disturbed I was like one of the like if
you think about like one of the most
Disturbed kids in your class that was me
like I lied a lot I
[Music]
um I I didn't feel confident I was one
of the smallest kids in the class I um
smoked I
like you know got yell dinner table
every night every night yeah while I was
home I would get yelled at for like an
hour hour and a half every night yeah
and like if I tried to stop my dad who
was in his full alcoholism at the time
was like see I told you you were weak
like there was no way out like I
was and like in retrospect you know my
parents marriage was was having a rough
time because of my dad's alcoholism and
so they were coming together over me the
problem as a way to stay
together like that's that's I think it
happens a lot which is like like a it's
kind of I think the theory is called
like family Crucible where one of the
kids acts out as a way for the parents
to come together yeah and save family
and and so it was just that's that it
was really bad and then I'm the sen I
like the cool thing that my dad my the
cool thing about my father is he was
always there for me he was like he was
always if I got in trouble he was there
if I got arrested he was there if I had
a problem with the teacher he was there
like there they said was like it was us
some way if there was a problem with the
outside world he would show up for me
and
and we were going back to the same
school for the second year and and we I
went to visit a friend who had changed
schools and when I went to this second
school I was like this is the school for
me and he was like okay and he did
whatever he did it just like right there
on the spot I went to that school that's
where I met L Tuttle yeah who became
like a father figure to me but someone
who actually loved me for who I was and
and so by the time I
was high school senior um I was not in
boarding school anymore and I was
straight A student I
was well adjusted and however like that
trauma I don't think I was really
through the thick of that till I was
like
33 wow you know like the yelling that my
parents did to me Taran I did your mom
and I did with each other in the first
couple years of our
marriage um the the feeling of aloneness
the feeling of emotional abandonment
like that stuff like lasted for a long
time I mean there's still obviously
there's never a time when the residue of
how you were raised goes completely away
like there's still like little pieces to
it but but yeah I would if I hadn't done
a lot of the work because I wanted the
marriage to work I it was it would be a
[__] show I'd be I I would be like my
father probably right which you you know
what that was like yeah and that was
when he wasn't drunk
yeah whoosh yeah yeah and somehow
grateful for the whole thing
like like somehow I don't think that I
could do any of the work that I do and I
don't I if I had been raised in a
different way I don't think I could do
the work that I do because like it would
be harder for me to relate to all the
different traumas that people have been
through and I think to some degree I
think I would raise you with the same
love and respect but
there's some way that like I I can I
think I see you more
fully because of like of the depths of
[__] that I went through makes sense you
know yeah so the
compassion you've lived it yeah yeah
that makes sense thanks for chatting
you're welcome thank you hey that was
really fun good to be with you I love
you I love you thank your teacher for
making this happen I don't know what the
I think it's NPR I I think I'm yeah
sending it into a a competition chitten
okay all
right Zoes I love you love you too bye